From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 76. Recorded live
Thursday, June 13th, 2013. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by teller
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklin.net makers
of gesture pad, a powerful
gesture, recording and recognition system
for Microsoft connect for windows
developers details@gesturek.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Raquel novellas
about no JS. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
I'm here in Portland, Oregon
at the Oregon convention center
at the jQuery conference, talking
with Raquel Velez. How are
you? I'm doing very well.
Thank you. You're doing a
talk tomorrow on node. Yes,
I am. I'm talking about
a front end development and
specifically in notes And you're
doing this at the jQuery
conference. I just figured this
would be a conference all
about like the dollar sign
and then that would be
it. We just dollar sign
talks and talks and talks
about that. Yeah, I know
it seems a little weird,
but actually I think because
of the evolution of the
language, as people start to
realize that front end development
is not just about jQuery,
even though what 90% of
developers use jQuery on the
front end, there are so
many more options out there.
Now it's so many opportunities
to kind of move past
that and move with that,
use it in other applications.
And so when I saw
the call for speakers, I
said, okay, let me try
putting something in about front
end development note because a
lot of people are a
little scared of this, you
know, crazy server-side JavaScript thing.
And I want to relieve
that those fears People for
some reason, and in development
seem to fall into the,
I segment myself in that
I'm a SQL programmer or
I'm a FoxPro or whatever,
like tiny tool. They just
pick a tool and they
stay in their lane and
then there's front end and
node. I know of people
who call themselves front end
developers, but it blurs a
little bit. When you start
talking about node development, I
mean, that's what happens when
you have JavaScript on the
front end and the backend,
it, it it's suddenly this
opportunity, like there's this door
that is opened. All these
people who have just didn't
use to writing JavaScript on
the, on the client side.
Now they can suddenly start
playing around with it on
the server side. And that
just kind of blows their
minds. They don't have to
wait for the Ruby guy,
the.net guy or whoever to
take care of the backend
stuff for them. Now they
can just jump in themselves.
Yeah, Yeah. That, that separation
of concerns slash separation of
responsibilities. When I was working
in the enterprise like pen
years ago, I was always
waiting for a storage product
from the database guys in
another part of the building,
or, you know, got to
wait for the debt that
the database guy to return
the data to the.net guy
who will then return the
data to me. Right. And
then I'll bring it in
with jQuery or whatever. Right.
Right. How do you think
that people find themselves in
a note, do you think
that they explicitly make this
leap? Like there's a, there's
a moment where they go,
all right, I'm doing it.
I'm going server side or
does it just happen? So
I think what happens is
I think there's multiple camps
of people. I think there
are the people who are
like, Oh, there's this new
shiny language. Let me go
play with it. But then
there's also people who are
like, Oh, I love Java
script. And now I can
do this on the back
end. Let me try that.
And then I think there's
also people who they, they
see, they find out that
it is just so easy
to get started with node,
that, that they have a
personal project or something. And
it's like, well, it's just
a couple of pages of
an app, you know, do
I have, how do I
get started? And, and then
they see how easy it
is to just start up
an express server and then
just start hacking away with
Jade and stylists and picking
out the routes and everything
like that. That they're just
like, Oh, well that doesn't
look so hard. Let me,
let me try that. And
so I, I think it
really depends on kind of
what your angle is, but
we've just seen this community
grow a million fold in
the last couple of years.
So yeah. Well, let's, let's
pick apart some of those
words that you use, like
stylist and Jade and express
service and the idea that,
what is it about node
that makes it easier to
pick up or appears to
make it as you pick
up then Java or C
plus plus or.net? I realized
that in those worlds, there's
a compilation step. There's always
this implication that there's an
IDE required. Right, Right, right.
No, with, with, with node,
I mean, with JavaScript in
general, what you don't there
really isn't an IDE necessarily
you don't use visual studio,
you use VIM or Emacs
or sublime, text or brackets
is the new one from
Adobe, whatever you like, it's,
it's not compiled, it's it,
you know, at least on
the front end, people are
just using it. They're used
to just having it kind
of load and, you know,
press refresh to try something
new. You don't have to
Do you think that's it?
Is it the press refresh
to try something new, both
server and client that makes
it so accessible to people?
I think so. I think,
I mean, you don't have
to sit there waiting for
anything to compile ever, and
you see errors immediately and
it, and it it's pretty
good. Debugging is not my
thing. Just my question. Even
without interactive debugging, like say
what you will about visual
studio, but when you really
know what's going on, I
will stand by the fact
that visual studio is Microsoft's
best product. I used to
write C plus plus, and
I love it, but what
so, okay. To be fair,
you can actually do debugging
and, and you can have
interactive break points and everything.
You can step into functions
and step through functions using,
for example, Chrome dev tools.
So you can do things
like that, and that's not
too hard at all. So
wait a second. You can
use Chrome dev tools on
the service. You Can actually,
I, I don't do it
too much, but, but you
can, there's also a command
line version of debugger. So
you can put in a
break point in your, in
your node server side code,
and then see it kind
of break in your, like
in your car. So if
I'm going to make a
note application, I have either
an app dot JS or
a server dot JS file.
That's sitting in a folder
somewhere and that's all I
need. Right. That's all you
need. I type node in
that folder that fires up
node and starts listening on
port 5,000 or whatever. Sure.
So there was no Apache
or anything. I have a
little tiny development server sitting
right there. That's right. And
the, is it app server,
app dot JS, or server
dot JS, which is the
Right now, I think right
now it's at that JS,
it may have previously been
served at JS. I think
it goes back and forth.
I don't think there's any
particular convention. I mean, you
could, you could call it
example dot JS if you
want it to, right. Yeah.
It uses the V eight
engine and this is the
exact same JavaScript engine that's
inside of the Chrome browser.
That's correct. Right. Isn't that
kind of a hack? I
mean, I'm not in no
way trying to disparate. No,
but I really want to
understand to my both myself
and also to people that
are listening, how this happened.
I mean, somebody's Ryan duck
like ripped this part of
Chrome out that he liked
and fired it up and
said a console app. Right.
And it worked and he
said, Oh goodness. And it
just started running right down
the street with it. Right.
Well, I think it's, it's
important to first say that,
you know, the beauty of
VA is that it's got
these C plus plus bindings,
but you can kind of
use JavaScript on, on top
of that. Right. So it,
it's this fancy little it's
super fast and, and really
efficient. And you can basically,
you've got this whole event
loop and things and, and
real time is the name
of the game, right? Like
that's, that's the beauty of
node. Why did on the
server side? Honestly, I don't
really know. I see no
reason. I think, I think
the question is more not
why, but why not. And,
and it's really, I think
the notion is being able
to use JavaScript on both
sides of the stack and
to just kind of run
with that. It's not necessarily
better or worse, but I
mean, but the implications that
the consequences of, of all
of that is that you
do have this opportunity to
have really fast, really high
concurrency applications that have just
totally taken over. I mean,
nowadays, if you want a
chat server, you use node,
like it's just so much
easier. It's fast and you
can have multiple people touching
the app at the same
time and you don't have
to worry about anything In
the, in the.net world. We
had some really neat stuff
happening 10 years ago with,
with web forms and brought
up a new generation of
desktop programmer into a world
where they could drag buttons
onto a design surface, and
suddenly they were writing web
applications. And I think.net people
are struggling right now make
this transition where a web
application that's served, primarily HTML
is not really serving HTML
anymore. It's not creating like
for reaching over data, generating
a table, and then sending
that table over the wire,
they're sending JavaScript over the
wire, right. Does a node
app serve HTML? Well, so
sort of in the sense
that, so like I said,
we have express and Jaden
status and just for the
sake of the listeners, let's
explain what those are. So
express is a, an MVC
framework. So you have a
model's views and controllers so
that you can kind of
organize your code in a
way that allows you to
take data from your database.
So that's your model kind
of side. And then you've
got your views, which basically
handle all of your front
end. So your, your, your
HTML, your CSS, your front
end JavaScript, and then you
have your controllers that basically
allow the data to talk
between the two and, and,
and account for routing and
all, And expresses is not
just the framework, but a
series of conventions. Like what
goes where Sure. I mean,
it's, it's, it's basically just
a bunch of files. Really.
It's a bunch of folders
that you can kind of
it, to me, it's more
of an organizer of your
code. Right. But yes, there
are some conventions, but it
uses node convention. So you
don't have to use express,
you could use flat iron,
or you could use something
completely different, like a Shepard
or something you guys have.
Cool. Yeah. I know. I
always talk about that. I
was like, I was making
a joke on stage once
and I was like, you
could just say lawn chair
dot, JS, and someone was
like, that's a thing. Okay.
Oh man. Yeah, absolutely. It's,
it's kind of hilarious. But
anyway, so, so express is
just one of many examples
of a model view controller
option and then Jade and
stylists. So Jade is an
HTML templating. You can call
it an HTML preprocessor and
that language, and then a
stylist is a CSS preprocessor
as well. So if you're
familiar with less or a
sass, a stylist is kind
of the J or the
it's the node version. So
I know less D the
stylist process, less files. No,
no, it's different. So the
syntax is neither last nor
SAS, but it is in
the same camp. So it's
a cousin. Okay, cool. Is
the preprocessor stitch mill stylist
is the preprocessor for CSS,
correct? I'm the organizer and
the convention in the file
cabinet of it all is
expressed that that imposes some
kind of model view controller
pattern. Absolutely. Okay. And then
am I serving out like
an index dot HTML? Yes,
That's exactly right. So what
happens is at least using
express you, so you have
this route, that's just like,
for example, your index, and
then you can say, well,
whenever somebody hits the index,
go to this controller function,
and then the controller function
you'll have a response notion
that says on response render
this file, which in our
case will be in Jade.
And then, but let's pass
in this information, this data
that we may have from
the backend, from a model
or something like that. And
then we can take that
data and we can basically
kind of put it into
our HTML template with Jade.
And so we can, we'll
have all of that stuff
in our J template. And
then it basically compiles to
HTML. So yeah, it serves
HTML and it, and, and
then of course, in addition,
it has the stylist, this,
the styling of that HTM
Template. So do do, do
node people, sweat the idea
of a model versus a
view model. Like, you know,
you might get the model
from the database and then
change it or projected onto
a different, more complicated object
that represents a more complicated
view and then pass that
view into energy. Yeah, No,
that's, I would actually, I
probably wouldn't put it into
Jade. I, I would put
whatever data you need to
put into Jade and then
within Jade and your client
side scripting. So if you
wanted to use a knockout
or something like that, or
backbone, you do that more
on the client side than
on the back. So on
the.net side, the people who
are doing not JavaScript heavy
or not a lot of
JavaScript on the client, mostly,
you know, take some data,
pass it into a view
and generate HTML and send
it across the wire and
then rinse and repeat. So
for, for them model view
controller is very much a
server side thing. Right. I
think it gets confusing in
the node world because it
is also a front end
developers world. There's there's two
model view controllers. Right. Right.
And you can, you can
kind of set it up
that way. Certainly. So you
have your model view controller.
So I guess to, to
be a little bit more
accurate or clarify, you set
up all of your, your,
you used Jade on the
back end and you set
it all up on the
back end. And so then
what goes over the wires
HTML? So like on, let's
say that initial load, we
show up word index dot
HTML, HTML Crow came across
the wire and the only
JavaScript involved initially in our
example, right. Happened on the
server. Yes. But then let's
say I start sorting and
paging and moving through this
table of maybe infinite length.
Sure. Let's say I'm going
to do one I'm one
of those infinite scroll deals.
Okay. So now I've got
a JavaScript event that's going
to happen on the client.
That's going to notice that
I'm scrolling right now. I'm
going to use JavaScript to
make a call back to
node, right. To a different
controller to get more data.
Yeah, exactly. So you can
basically have a new route
that will, that you can
just Ajax to, for example.
Okay. So, so yeah, all
of that is happening at
different. So it's important as,
as wonderful as it is
to do JavaScript on the
front and the back, it
is important to mentally separate
the front end from the
back end. So that don't
criss cross the wires. That
is it. Do I want
to share, like, is that
an attractive thing and no,
like I'm using JavaScript on
both ends. Should I have
the same model on client
services? Sure, absolutely. You can
absolutely do. Okay. So that
brings up an interesting point.
Let's say that we're or
were you kind of using
our little trite example? Let's
say that we're turning a
list of people to yellow
pages. So I've got a,
an object in JavaScript that
represents people, first name and
last name and age and
things like that. So a
very first time someone hits
the page. It could be
a user, could be the
Google bot. So I definitely
need HTML to get returned.
I do my template matching
and I, and I do
my route matching and I
generate HTML and I serve
HTML. But now I'm on
the client side, correct? Doing
clients. I, things paging. Maybe
I scroll down with my
infinite scroll. I see an
event. I call back with
Ajax and I say, go
give me more people. Right.
I'm thinking about people on
the client and on the
server now, now rather than
it calling Jade, can I
just go to the model,
grab a bunch of people,
put them in a, a
Ray. I just go flying
across as Jason. Yes. Now
it's Jason. And in, in
this particular case though, you're
because you're not changing the
HTML from the templating side
of things, it's going to
have to stay all on
the client side. So you
would, you'd probably use Zane
jQuery or backbone or something
that will allow you to
modify the Dom as you
go along. Okay. So then
I bring that, that person,
that list of people across
the wire and there's no
real deserialization point. I mean,
it's just Jason at that
point. Yeah. Right. Absolutely. Jason
is, is our data model.
If you want to think
of it that way, like
it is, it is the
crux of it. It's our
data structure. It's the crux
of all data going back
and forth. We don't really
use XML very much. We
don't really use, you know,
most of the other options,
we just stick with Jason
as much as possible because
it's a, it's a job.
Right. It's, it's, it's kind
of funny, but it's running
code. We're like, literally we're,
we're blurring the line between
the byte code that is
JavaScript and, and data. Right.
Absolutely. And, and, but it's
beautiful because you don't have
to actually do anything to
the object. You can just
leave the object as it
is and just read from
it. Right? Yeah. There's no
impedance mismatch. I mean, I'm
constantly trying to deserialize things
and serialize things and move
back and forth. And that
was what that's, what was
no fun about XML, right?
No matter what language you
used to read from it.
Exactly. Yeah. Okay. So then
I would take that, that
on the client, I might
have a model view controller.
I might have angular, Ember,
whatever, then extend that table
so that my first load
returned HTML and my subsequent
interactions might be, might be
Java script. Right. So then
on the client side, I
have a controller that might
be making those Jason calls.
Sure. Right. So I mean,
what you could do is,
so you, you, you could
either have a client side
controller I E via backbone
or something like that. Or
you could just use Ajax
and just call back to
your server side application and
have that controller take care
of stuff as someone who
Is thinking about getting involved
in this or learning about
it. And I'm sure a
lot of the listeners are
interested in this. There seems
to be such an intensity
of feeling around how to
properly structure things. And it's
unclear from the uninitiated point
to myself as well, being
an uninitiated person, that there
are lots of people who
speak with these declarative statements,
right? Yes. They'll shout do
their stuff like this. Absolutely.
And then there's people who
are a little bit more
like we really haven't figured
it out yet, and we're
just making declarative statements to
see if it will stick.
Right. Is there a right
way to make an app
yet on the client? Are
we just still putting noun
dot JS together to figure
out what feels right? I
think, I think there's some
conventions, but I mean, the
web is constantly changing. There's,
there's no way that I
would ever say, this is
how you do it. And
there's, we're not going to
talk about it anymore because
this is how we do
it. And I would never
say that things are changing
all the time. If you
talk to somebody, you know,
a year ago, they would
have said single page apps,
why would you do that?
You know? So, So these
are real, it's a religious
argument. It's never going to
get solved as a religion.
It's, it's the same thing
as tabs versus spaces or
semi-colons, or not semi-colons or,
you know, where do you
put your opening curly brace?
There, there are conventions, there
are some generally accepted things,
but there are also so
many arguments one way or
the other, but I don't
think it really matters to
me. So you're not a,
you don't fall in the
religious zealot. I don't, I
really don't. I'm the type
of person who uses things
the way I feel like
it. I mean, I, I
currently do hardware hacking with
node. I build robots. So,
which is something that nobody
ever does. Let's talk about
that. So you had mentioned
the idea that there are
C plus plus bindings V8,
and how, you know, when
I think of JavaScript, I'm
still kind of old school
and that I think of
this high level interpreted language.
And I forget that we're
talking about serious jetted Al
like almost as if JavaScript
were close to the metal,
right? Like C or C
plus plus. Absolutely. But I
think it's really important to
recognize that that JavaScript is
not a classical language. So
when people come to JavaScript
from C plus plus, or
even Python or C, they,
they expect there to be
these classes and then you
have private and protected and
public and, and all these
other things JavaScript doesn't really
have that JavaScript is a
functional language. And so it's
like, Well, it's not functional,
like Haskell, is it or
old camel? We'll say classical.
I think you're meaning classically
object oriented. No. So, so
JavaScript is definitely object oriented.
When I say classical, I
say things more like classes.
So you, you have the,
this class and, and JavaScript
kind of does things like
that with its protein. I
would think that, that it's
not a classically object oriented
language in that it doesn't
have the kind of visibility
scoping and object hierarchy. I
would think of it as
is it pretty straight forward
prototypical language, Right? Well, yeah,
so it's definitely prototypical, but
the reason I call it
functional is that it, it
it's more like scheme than
it is like Java. Right,
right. So, Brenda, Nick, I
heard him give a talk
a couple of weeks ago.
He said, they told me
that it needs to look
like Java, but it needs
to act like scheme. And
I was like, that's a
really interesting way of thinking
about it. Okay. So explain
that to people who may
not be familiar with schemer,
man. And I play with
that in school. Sure. So,
so scheme is so basically
take all notions of, of
Forget everything you've learned in
the last 20 years And,
and start all over. And
so if you're familiar with
lisp scheme and lisp are
our friends, it's this idea
that you can pass functions
into other functions Without any
impedance. It's not a big
deal, like in C plus
plus it's like partners to
partners that think that there
are no pointers. And John,
this is a big deal
to pass a function through
function And, and passing by
reference is just kind of
default. And, and so JavaScript
is special because you can,
you can, one of your
parameters can be a function
and you can return a
function from a function. So
Like you could actually even
create a function. You can
create She from within a
function. Yeah. And so it's,
it's this it's weird. Right?
Well, I think it brings
up a point that you
can't just drop in to
JavaScript after 10 or 15
years of doing C plus
plus or C sharp and
expect to have the idioms
and the patterns in your
head just ready and available.
Because if you try to
write it as if it
were she Oh. And believe
me, I've tried doing that
and it's ugly. Right. So
you have to think yourself,
gosh, it's just not intuitive
to me to pass and
functions. Absolutely. I think, I
think one of the biggest
kind of the easiest way
to think about that is
when you start talking about
asynchronicity in, in JavaScript. So
this notion that, so whenever
I was whenever I did
C plus plus, if it
was very synchronous, so if
a then, so like, you
know, line one goes and
then line two goes and
line three goes Right. Extremely
procedural and very clear. Right.
But because of the, the
single stream or the single
threaded nature of JavaScript, it
doesn't work that way. You
don't, you don't send off
a command and then wait
for it to come back
before the next one goes,
you just start sending them
back. And then when a
function finishes, it'll come back
and we'll call you back.
Right. So, so what we
do is we actually have
this notion of callbacks, right?
So in, in C plus,
plus when you have a
function, you return like a
variable or like a, a
bullion or an int or
something like that, unless it's
a Boyd. Right. But in
JavaScript, if, when you're for
you want the, when you
send an instruction off to
the, to the server, then
you, you are notified that
it is done by using
a callback. And what a
callback is, is it's generally
an anonymous function that executes
after the one has finished
executing. Okay. So you're, you're
basically getting a promise that
I'll call you back when
I'm done, and then you're
free to do whatever you
want to. Exactly. Exactly. Okay.
So, but it's a little
weird because you're sending this
function through this other function
to know when the first
function is done. Right. And
that's really confusing, especially for,
for folks who are used
to things being very serialized.
So especially if you're used
to multi threads, threading has
gone like, say goodbye. This
is where I, I have
so much trouble when I'm
thinking about things on the
client side, because there's feels
like there's so much more
maintenance of state. I'm building
these state machines on the
client side and I'm inevitably
getting things out of sync.
Right. If I look at
really complicated apps like Gmail
or Trello that are just
like big JavaScript apps and
like, how are they keeping
it all together? Like somehow
I just imagine it, the
way I would phrase it
is that I imagine the
state just degrading over time
and then just declaring state
bankruptcy and hitting F five
and starting from scratch. What
I mean, I just don't
see how that app, like,
that could run for so
long without something getting out
of sync and then just
giving up. Right. And the
way that we do that
is through callbacks and, and
basically coming back to center.
So we have this notion
in, in robotics where if
you're just doing dead wrecking
game, and what that means
is let's say you're counting.
Like if you close your
eyes and you try and
walk in a straight line,
right. It's really hard because
especially if you're right dominant.
And so like, if you
write with your right hand,
you probably also have more
emphasis on your right foot.
So if, if you close
your eyes and you try
to walk in a straight
line, you will kind of
veer to the right a
little bit. You have no
reference point, right. Or to
the left, I guess. But,
but then if you reach
out and touch a wall,
right. And you know that
you're supposed to be arms
length from the wall, then
you can correct yourself. Oh.
And then your perception of
where you are completely reset.
It's like when you're walking
at night with your eyes
closed and you're like, Oh,
I'm not where I thought
I was. And now I
am where I thought I
was. Exactly. So, so you
correct yourself. So, so you
can still keep your eyes
closed, but if you use
some external information, you can
find yourself back to where
you need to be. So,
so we use callbacks to
kind of do that same
exact thing. We, we, we
veer off, we let the,
we send instructions out and
then we wait for them
to come back. And then
once they come back, okay,
now we're still on our
side. Okay. And then that
is our, we bring our
state machine back to a
known state known good state.
Exactly. Which is effectively refreshing
and returning to a known
state. Right. Okay. That makes
sense. Interesting. So you're thinking
that people on the front
end find themselves in JavaScript,
just because the lure of,
well, I'm already writing JavaScript
on the client. Right. I
might as well just do
a little work on the
server. Right? Exactly. Do you
think that that brings a
new kind of person to
the server side as if
maybe for lack of being
a bit, maybe a little
bit of a prejudice, a
snooty person, like the non
computer science people, the non
software engineering, maybe the English
majors. Do we really want
the English majors on the
server side? English majors? Absolutely.
One of my favorite people
in the entire world who
is easily, one of the
best JavaScript developers I've ever
met, she's an English major.
But, but it, it, it,
it really does open up
the doors to people who
don't necessarily think the same
way, who don't necessarily see
things the same way, but
can absolutely contribute in a
very meaningful way. Do I'm
imagining, trying to think about
like what this means to
my kind, my.net friends and
my.net. People who rely not
just on the IDE, although
they could certainly do their
work in sublime, but also
things I can tell a
sense. Do you find yourself
when you're starting out just
making all sorts of syntax
errors and mistakes? Absolutely never
works. Yeah, Absolutely. There's, it's
really easy to, especially if
you have a poor, like,
if, if, if you're slightly
dyslexic and you keep changing
a couple of letters in
your variable names, I mean,
that just messes a person
up. But fortunately the error
catching is, is really quite
good and JavaScript. And so
there'll be like, eh, line
such and such. That's no
bueno, you know? So Are
there people who, who, who,
who need that initial unit
test, I'd like to say
that compilation is the first
unit test. Some people have
suggested like running JS, lint
right before you hit FIS.
Absolutely. Yeah. And you can
certainly run JS line. I
use, I personally use sublime
text and for a little
while I had a linter
that would just constantly be
running through my code. So
every time I clicked, I
press save, it would run
through and it would highlight,
Hey, you forgot to semi-colon
here. Or you have never,
this variable doesn't exist elsewhere.
And you realize, Oh, I
misspelled something or, or whatever.
So that's kind of like
a nice pre Yeah. Little
compilation step there. But did
you say that you used
to do that? You don't
do it anymore. Right? I
don't do it anymore because
I find it to be
a bit of a crutch.
And so I, I felt
like I needed to level
up. And so I wanted
to, so I turned it
off so that if I
did make errors, I would
see the error message and
then it would have to
figure out what, why the
error message came out. And
I actually have found that
I've become a better coder
Because of that. Really? Yeah.
There's a lot of debate
amongst the visual studio crowd
that, you know, is IntelliSense
a crutch. Does it rot
the brain? I think that
you can get really into
declarative statements when you start
talking like that. But at
the same time though, I
remember when I was working
at Nike maybe 15 years
ago, and it was like
a big black and white
X, X terminal, 30 inch
X terminal kind of thing,
giant monitors, big CRTs. Right,
right. Green-screen VI and a
giant thousand page book of
Java. Right. No help, you
know, and a compile took
10 minutes. Absolutely. So I
realized that people who are
listening, who may be older
than I have those tales
of like, you know, 30
minute compiles. Right. Right. But
I wonder if you had
let JS Lindt running when
you hit save, I've heard
of people having things like
auto test going all the
time. Right. Absolutely. Yeah. And,
and especially, so you can
also, as you're pushing things
up to the server, you
can have continuous integration that
will basically run all of
your tests. I'm very much
a pro test driven development
type person. So every time
you push to production, it
makes sure that everything works.
And you, you run, if
you, if you've ever heard
of grunt, it's a command
line tool that allows you
to automate all the things.
And so with grunt, you
can actually automate your tests
or automate linters and things
like that. So that before
you press that five, all
of those things get run.
What do you recommend people
use for unit tests? If
I was going to graduate
from hello world to hello
world with tests, right? What
should I, what should I
have on my machine? I
should have noticed should have
NPM or should have an
editor. And I should have
what else I would recommend.
Mocha mocha to me is
just a, it's a beautiful
JavaScript testing language. It's really
intuitive. Especially if you understand,
if, if, if you're comfortable
with JavaScript, comfortable, really being
a light term, like you
don't even have to be,
you don't have to be
like on a scale of
a total newb to Brendan
Eich, you know, a level
nine, like it's, you can
be a level four, just
be comfortable with jQuery. I
like your uses of levels.
I'm going to give you,
I'm going to give you
plus two charisma just for
you. Yeah. Thank you. So
yeah, if you're just, if
you're a jQuery is, is
good enough. You'll you'll like
mocha. Cool. So Rick COVID
thanks so much for talking.
Thank you. I really appreciate
it. This is fun. We'll
put links to Carol on
Twitter and her website, and
hopefully perhaps links to your
slides and information about your
talk here at the jQuery
conference. That'd be fantastic. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.